thank you very much so first of all
thank you for having me here this is a
huge honor because a few years ago I was
usually sitting on that side of the room
and I used to come to a EE 380 to watch
basically like the heroes of computing
come over and like talk and like I don't
belong here I really don't I think maybe
in like a few decades like four or five
perhaps I might earn like ssmall
mentioned but really thank you for
having me here at least use the venue to
talk about the feature of the web
because it is really important to get
this right we've come to depend on the
web more than almost any other
technology at least when it comes to
international communications and
infrastructure and it could be it could
be in danger at least we've encounter
encountering some problems that we
should fix all right so this the way I'm
going to structure this talk is that I
will be giving a a pretty comprehensive
overview of the problems that brought
about the or the problems that ipfs
tries to solve then I'll discuss the
protocol in detail I'll actually talk
about IP FS in general and then I'll
talk about the project from a meta
perspective of how you go about building
open-source protocols to try and patch
the living system that we have that is
the Internet and also at the end kind of
so have this presentation with a whole
bunch of slides but at the end I'll go
through a set of principles in terms of
like lessons learned as you go about
building systems and give a give way to
a like a discussion around how protocol
development should perhaps happen what
are some critical pieces of some
critical principles when you go about
building protocols to make sure that the
thing gets adopted so switching costs is
one of them there's a bunch of others
that we've had to struggle with on how
to think through carefully to make sure
that what we make is actually used
instead of you know become part of the
pile of cool amazing technology that
goes absolutely nowhere so yeah that's
kind of the whole thing and at the end I
kind of will open up for questions and
can really dive into whatever people
want to talk about all right so ipfs
this talk is is called you know the
distributed permanent web or how I
learned to stop worrying and love the
Merkel Web because it really when you
think about Merkel links and I'll
describe how those work they kind of
solve almost everything
not exactly but but it's a really
important property that I just wish had
been put into the web from the beginning
and funnily enough I think the timing
was such that they could have been put
from soon to the weapon from the
beginning they just weren't and if only
that had happened that the world today
would be pretty different
so ipfs we liked calling it the
distributed web or the permanent web or
the Merkel web in honor of Ralph Merkel
who came up with Merkel links and it's
really a protocol to upgrade how the web
works and the goal is to make something
that doesn't change the interface
meaning that if if you do anything that
will cause people to have to mutate to
change how they think about their
application system it's never going to
be deployed because people just won't
switch to it as we were discussing so
we're matching the interface that people
already expect there will be some things
you can do with some more advanced
features but the goal is to get web
developers and web application creators
to just be able to layer whatever it is
you're building today on top of IP FS
and just if nobody knows that there's
been a switch then we've won because the
Internet should be upgraded that way
where the end user should never have to
think about programs changing or having
to install anything else it should just
get better and I PFS stands for the
interplanetary file system and this is a
specific choice as an homage to JCR
Licklider who when he created the
ARPANET or he had the ideas for the
ARPANET what eventually turned into the
called it the intergalactic Network and
that just sort of sets the the ambition
of the original Internet project right
like we're talking about a network that
should operate at an intergalactic scale
and that was the idea let's take all of
these small pieces all of these networks
that are use case specific and bind them
together with this overlay network that
we're going to call the the
intergalactic Network and now everything
is going to be able to talk to
everything else and that's pretty much
been true I mean today all the devices
are connecting through the internet and
are able to talk to each other from
these very simple design principles now
what does it mean to think about file
distribution in that kind of scale one
of the first things that you
interplanetary sort of brings up is
we're now moving data across planets
there you run into serious issues when
you think about latency and it turns out
that that's the same kind of problem
that emerges when you think about moving
data from the data center to users in
say like developing countries or really
slow networks and you end up with
different constant factors of course but
the problem is the same when in the data
center you're dealing with things at the
microsecond or milliseconds scale when
you move out to the edges of the network
you're dealing with seconds and minutes
and that is that kind of a difference is
the same as communicating over you know
distances here on earth versus
communicating over distances to
something like Mars so the claim is that
we should be building the internet and
the file distribution system for the
Internet
ie the web in such a way that it should
work when we consider cases like
interplanetary travel right so that's
that's a so the name ipfs tries to
encapsulate all of this it's on a
massive Lickliter
and puts it into people's minds that we
really mean business when we say this
thing should work across these massively
long distances cool so all right so this
is a Paul Byron's first category enough
networks and I like using this image
because it shows how
the difference is in in a structure of a
network you can have vast implications
in the in the uses of the protocols
right so when we think about centralized
architectures it's pretty easy to change
you just go and change one thing and you
can upgrade things very quickly but it
centralizes power in one location and so
the end users may not be able to have
the same kind of capabilities when we
talk about decentralized networks these
we've now gone to kind of sharded the
responsibilities of the center node and
we could potentially have a network
that's more resilient that perhaps could
deal with some failures but still it you
don't have full the same level of
resiliency that you could get if
everything spoke the same protocol and
so in the distributed case when
everything is peer-to-peer when
everything can talk to everything else
when every single node is running the
exact same code or at least is able to
speak the same protocol now you're
talking about an extremely resilient
fabric that you can cut in any kind of
shape and the thing should still work
for the most part the web started in the
distributed world you know the original
idea was that you would have your own
HTTP server and your an HTTP client and
you would both serve files and browse
the web but today it's not really the
case it's kind of centralized completely
you have browsers that talk to servers
and you maybe create content that way
but all your interactions or most
interactions are mediated through this
central central point right and this is
kind of distributed across or rather
federated across different organizations
or different web websites but for the
most part when you deal with one kind of
system you're completely centralized
that's an issue so why does this matter
right like why should we try and make
the web more distributed at the end of
the day the Internet today is kind of
like this nervous system that we have
right so humanity invented this
technology and we've now become so
dependent on it and use it for
everything to the point where it really
is the nervous system that we're
evolving together and the web actually
going to in a second in the Internet the
amazing thing is that it's just a
collection of protocol
right it's just a whole bunch of really
good ideas implemented and deployed that
made the whole thing work in scale and
it's actually a remarkable feat of
engineering and design from the get-go
to sort of constructs an architecture
that would scale to the youth today and
I always actually love the fact that
we're still running IP before of course
I would love to switch a v6 but I
actually love the fact that ipv4 has has
gotten us here and is still in use today
that's pretty amazing you can't say the
same thing about most other protocols
and again like the great idea was
created this this thin waste to try and
and allow the lower layers of the
network to evolve and also allow the
upper layers of the network to evolve
separately and only have this very small
protocol in between that will mediate
how the whole network will Graham kind
of basics but the cool thing about the
Internet is that you can just you can
change it and you can make it better by
coming up with good ideas you take these
ideas and if they're good enough you
then write specs you turn those specs
into code you deploy them into computers
and you enhance humans right and this is
very real think about your daily life
think about how much you use
applications that augment your abilities
through software that's connected to
other software elsewhere and think about
how many of those applications were
built by people that you know didn't
have the capabilities to just build this
massive infrastructure they just wrote
some code and deployed it to you and now
you have it and now you have a
superpower this is a remarkable kind of
technology right like this it didn't
necessarily have to be this way it could
have been completely mediated by
powers-that-be but for whatever reason
or rather by clever design and
engineering we today have this internet
that is upgradeable in a fantastic way
right where any kind of person you know
like the quintessential college kids in
their dorm room can come up with the
best idea or some great idea deploy into
the network and suddenly build something
massive and create tons of value for the
world and then the cycle kind of looks
like this right you have some research
you then develop it into code you deploy
it and then people use it
it's it's this um it's in this in this a
sequence that sometimes problems happen
many people so there's a ton of research
that happens and when you think about
what I could even knows we're basically
like fifteen or twenty years ahead of
what's deployed and in use today and
that to me is pretty sad because what it
suggests is that it's really kind of
like a like a lazy deployed development
and lazy development process in that we
know what's right to build just nobody
has done it and in a big way ifs is
really just an integration of old ideas
it's taking good ideas that have been
known about for a long time and trying
to upgrade the current internet by
developing them making sure that the
interfaces make sense deploying them to
the whole network and making them easy
to use for developers programmers and
end-users so why does a web matter so we
know about the internet it's like this
amazing piece of technology but what
what is the web really how is it
different from the Internet the web is
this application platform that allows
you to write these pieces of software
and put them on this amazing
interconnected nervous system and it's
what actually gives you the capabilities
it's these applications that give you
the superpowers it's not necessarily the
communication sure you could potentially
write some bits but the end user is not
going to you know sit and write a
protocol and try to communicate with
somebody else the end user is just going
to use some application deployed through
something like the web and just think
about in your day to day life how much
of what you do across all verticals of
your life from learning to communicating
with your colleagues to communicate with
your loved ones to maintaining your
personal relationships how much of that
work is now done through internet
protocols in general and specifically
the web so the the point is that the
properties of the web have vast
implications in your capabilities as a
human being which means that if there
are some problems with the web we better
fix them because it might mean trouble
for people
and lo and behold there are some
problems with the web as I discussed
earlier it's kind of centralized now and
that's you know a source of problems but
it all kind of boils down to some design
decisions that mostly have to do with
location addressing and this made a lot
of sense at the time
location addressing is just the idea of
saying when you have a some resource
place on the web you address it with the
IP address of the host that contains the
resource this was great at the time it
made made the web actually work finally
there have been many hypertext systems
in the past four decades before and it
was actually this idea that made it
scale very quickly so this was a great
idea at the time but location addressing
has a problem which is that in a network
where the same file might exist in many
places only a specific host or you know
virtual host it could be multiple
computers pretending to be one only one
specific host can actually serve you the
file that's because that is the
authority of the content if you try to
get it from somewhere else you couldn't
know that it's the same thing so you
specifically have to go and talk to that
host to retrieve the data to sort of
illustrate this imagine that we're kind
of in this room and I were to share a
picture to Facebook a web application
and I sent you a link and now all of you
would have to go and talk to Facebook to
pull down the image and so that is when
you kind of look at it in the network I
upload some image over to Facebook I
hand you a link now 30 people go and
make a request and pull down the image
which is slow and a huge waste of
bandwidth perhaps the web could be
structuring a different way to make use
of the fact that perhaps the image is
sitting right here in this computer and
you could get it and images are not that
big of a deal we have a lot of bandwidth
these days but think about video if if
there's a a 200 megabyte video which is
actually pretty common these days we
could be wasting you know something like
to the tune of forty eight gigabytes
just by sharing one video across these
links we took a number of views from
from Gangnam style which is I think the
most viewed
yeah we're getting this packets with
that no no this is just raw data right
like of course there's all sorts of
other stuff that going to yeah but
arguably you could squeeze out like
these are kind of constant factors I get
at it it's more about like the order to
deal with here this is just kind of
illustrating how much bandwidth we're
really losing something like Gangnam
style has been viewed to the tune of
like almost or over 2 billion times and
when you just when you count just the
data coming out of Google servers let
alone all the links we're dealing with
something close to 500 petabytes of data
that's a lot for a video right I mean
this is clearly an issue there's no
reason we should be moving around all of
this data constantly through the network
and I wonder how many of those people
actually saw the same video multiple
times in the same day through different
tabs that might have cost the the
content to move again caching is not
perfect HTTP caching was sort of
invented as a way to deal with this
problem but in reality doesn't work most
of the time and the security model kind
of precludes caching most of the time
right so you can't actually use in
network in between caching because if
you want privacy and security in the
internet you have to armor the wire
which means you're back to the same
problem again where you have to move the
data all the way problem so another
issue around bandwidth is that it's not
increasing very fast so this is a graph
showing the average connection speed of
the g7 countries and this is from 2007
to 2012 and the average connection speed
hasn't increased as much as other things
like processing power or or storage in
fact the prices when you graph the
prices of decreasing over time bandwidth
is decreasing in price slower than
storage what this means is that in a
sense we get this impression that the
capacity of the storage capacity is
outpacing the speed at which we can move
around data in the network giving us the
impression that the network is getting
slower so bandwidth could be getting
better our speeds could be getting
better but because our disks are
increasing in size faster and we're
using media that's ever and ever larger
we get the feeling that the network is
actually getting slower this gets worse
when you think about developing
countries and the number of people that
are coming online all the time and
you're now in like these networks at the
edge of the of the of the internet that
have really high latency x' slope at a
small bandwidth and then you have
websites that try to give them you know
tens or or dozens of megabytes just to
load a webpage and they're completely
locked out of the Internet and so these
amazing capabilities that we're
discussing about before discussing
before all the software that you can
deploy suddenly can't reach the end user
in the network and that's a big issue
when you think about the people out
there that need the internet most the
people that we kind of discuss and say
let's go in and create all this great
software to deploy it and kind of
equalize the the disparity of wealth
across the world and ends up being
locked out for by stupid issues like
latency and bandwidth like that should
not be that should not prevent people
from accessing the network and recently
there was so there's this huge immigrant
crisis right now in the huge refugee
crisis in Europe right now there's all
these camps being set up and there's
reports that people have food they have
clothes and so on but what they don't
have is bandwidth they can't actually
talk to their loved ones they can't find
each other because they don't have the
capability to be able to communicate
with each other and so this is this kind
of like insane situation where something
so simple is blocking people latency of
course is like the bane of computer
networks which is that you can't go
faster than the speed of light problems
and so the solution is try and spread
the content everywhere so here is kind
of like the Amazon data centers and the
Google data centers spread all over the
world to try and get you content faster
but that's only those companies what
about everybody else everybody who
everybody else in the network should be
able to have capabilities like this but
the design structure of the internet
precludes it and sure you could hire
them to serve it but it is possible that
you may end up not being able to use
these these systems internally by the
way that this picture kind of elucidates
all the problems here there's another
set of use cases that the web is mostly
mostly has ignored so far which is what
happens when you deal with disconnected
or offline operation and so again in
this case if I send you a Google Doc and
we start all collaborating in the same
same thing and it's amazing we're
sharing all this data it's kind of silly
that we have to move the updates through
the backbone to some server out there
and shipping them back here
when we now have really sophisticated
algorithms that can do you know smart
conflict free resolution that allows us
to collaborate in real time and yet
we're still moving all the updates to
the backbone right this is very silly
and it gets worse when you think about
the network falling apart so if our
uplink were to fall to go offline we
lose the capability of working together
completely let alone you know you should
be able to continue working because
we're in the same room we are in the
same portion of the network we should
continue having this capability and yet
we don't and there's actually a lot of
important sort of infrastructure tools
there out there or infrastructure
applications that basically fall apart
in this kind of scenario or you have to
work really hard to make sure that you
as a user are protected against this
problem there are kind of caches of
Wikipedia that you could download but
for the most part most links will fall
apart
this is something that the web can and
shoot fix and we actually think this is
completely unacceptable right like I
want to live in a world where the
applications that I use will continue
working whether or not I'm in the best
place in the network I recently took a
trip through Europe and I was surprised
to find that in the trains between
cities the latency got so bad on mobile
that I just got locked out of many web
sites just the the latency was so high
that the round-trip times for the the
crypto handshake would just time out and
suddenly couldn't you do anything or
like turn off HTTP right and this is
really really silly so I still see it as
this like you have this this mothership
that is kind of controlling everything
and like you you lose access to the
mothership and everything falls apart
and we need to as engineers and as
designers of applications and us
builders
get out of this huge problem and the
thing is like it you don't have to even
think about full disconnection sometimes
low bandwidth blocks you out
interference between wireless networks
congestion of use travel outages you
know that is a picture of a datacenter
on fire or like after a fire so things
do happen and the web should be able to
have an infrastructure that makes it
easy for the average web developer to
build tools to build applications in a
way that will be resilient basically
today only the major corporations are
able to build resiliency against this
then there's also other kinds of
problems like human problems around you
know surprise suppression Egypt kind of
woke up one morning to the fact that the
government had shut off access to the
Internet and now how could they organize
they had no way of contacting each other
all of their communication
infrastructure was gone then there's of
course this one censorship and and so on
and so this this kind of stuff really
really matters and when you think about
the messaging tools there's really no
reason that these shouldn't work in
disconnected networks we already know
from a technical standpoint everything
we need to do to make these really
critical applications work in the
disconnected or offline case it gets so
those are human problems what about
natural disasters right this is a big
deal alright so if you don't care about
you know the eventualities maybe I can
convince you through pointing out that
the web is getting kicked out of
ubiquitous computing so we have like all
of these devices that we're now using
from you know tablets and phones and
phone watches and soon enough we'll have
like earrings and bracelets and so on
they're all connected to the internet
and none of them basically except the
regular desktops or laptops really use
the web most applications that we see in
mobile are now shifting entirely to
using the web only as a sink system and
running entire application platforms
that are locked down and closed
and this is basically taking that
amazingly malleable system where
somebody could just build some code and
continue to update it very easily into a
lockdown
platform that only a few people decide
whether or not something will be
installed so this is a huge step back
from from where we were right like the
web gate was this amazingly beautiful
platform where you just ship some HTML
and some JavaScript and CSS and now you
have a wonderful new capability that
you've granted to the whole world and
it's getting shut out and this is
because the you know mobile browsers are
kind of slow how would you do a web
browser on the on the watch and so on
but there's actually a deeper problem
here which is that the web model doesn't
work in the disconnected case like how
do you deal with a website that you can
no longer talk to and so this suggests
that the real problem is what we're
layering the web on we shouldn't be
doing the web over this kind of just
simple file distribution system that
works over TCP and you have to work
really hard to put over anything else we
should be putting the web over a
distribution system that can deal with
the distributed case that is offline
first and this is are kind of like stats
showing the usage of mobile apps versus
the web and so on so this is a very real
real thing there's of course data
control we have all these huge
applications that are gathering all this
data and it's out there and
theoretically is our data sort of but in
reality they control it and you can't
actually link the data to each other you
only link to accessing the data through
their application so if you make a post
on Facebook that is some important piece
of information that you're declaring to
the world or Twitter or whatever the
link that you can give out to people is
specifically a link that accesses that
data through their website so if they
choose to censor it or they go away or
you close your account suddenly all of
that data is gone
you can't link to it this breaks the
whole idea of the web the whole point
was to be able to build small pieces of
information that you can interlink to
each other not to
rely on gatekeepers all the way and
applications that design how we access
things
all right security is another problem
which is of course how do you deal with
the fact that most of the traffic's in
the clear of course we now have TLS and
so on but still people break into these
systems all the time and you know steal
data and so on
there's a also this like tragic
situation where most web developers
don't understand security and so and the
tools are not really there to help them
design secure systems so people make all
sorts of mistakes all over the place and
our data gets leaked stolen and so on
and this can be a really big problem
when you think about all of the
important pieces of information that you
are storing yourself and you know as an
individual organization corporation
whatever governments think about all the
information you're storing on the web
and how easily it could be stolen
corrupted changed under your feet you
might discover someday that all of your
communications are slightly different
somebody could actually sneak into your
email servers and do this and this is
kind of the fundamental problem this is
an image from the Snowden leaks that
shows how the model of the web is such
that we armor the wire and this is a
really good description from Van
Jacobson actually who is working on a
project similar to ipfs and which is
really really I'll describe it more
later but he talks about how in the web
today we are armoring the wire only and
not really armoring the data and so what
this means is that we're obsessed
constantly with protecting the
communication between your browser and
the server but but anybody could sneak
into either your browser or the or the
server and change everything
or steal it or whatever and in reality
we should be protecting and armoring the
data itself so we need authenticated and
encrypted data at rest all right the
last problem hopefully I haven't like
filled you with fear yet because this
one's a big one
so permanence throughout history we've
kind of seen these societies that burn
books as
the worst right we've sort of seen like
the whole idea of destroying knowledge
which is kind of what makes us human the
whole idea of destroying knowledge is
just a portent to what we think of
civilization and yet on the web today we
burn books all the time it just doesn't
happen in Mass right like we break links
all over the place somebody could just
be redesigning a website break some link
and now the whole thing is gone and
every every application that depended on
that link is now broken so though of
course you could be searching for the
content again all of the software that
you built isn't doing those searches so
they're now broken so the idealized web
of documents is really a web of
documents on computers specifically on
specific host in the network and if you
go and take those out the whole thing
Falls like all the links break
thankfully of course the Internet
Archive has been trying to deal with
this problem by by ingesting the as much
of the web as they can possibly get and
backing it up right and this is a really
critical component but this suggests
that perhaps we should be rethinking how
the web is structured so that this kind
of work is easier and that the web
itself doesn't disappear on its own or
accidentally then Cerf has also been
talking about this which is yeah well
the person in your Lillis trations are
speaking here in two weeks yes so so he
is actually going to talk about a whole
bunch of the same kinds of problems so
you'll get to see this from different
perspectives
yessir if you don't know about the
archive and Brewster's work please look
it up it's hugely vital and important to
how they the network is today funny
story actually one of the systems that
we used as inspiration for ipfs the
source code for it was found through the
wayback machine like i couldn't actually
found it anywhere else so that's there
you go like this is this is important
stuff Vint Cerf also describes it this
has a problem of digital vellum like
what happens when we lose the ability to
understand the data that we store so we
forget about programs we or we lose some
some program that knows how to read some
format and now
have a whole bunch of data that we can't
decipher or is a lot of work to decipher
so we should be thinking about
constructing applications in a way that
we could resuscitate all the whole thing
like we should be able to emulate every
single machine that we ever build by
virtualizing the whole thing and being
able to to make sure that we back up all
of the stuff in multiple different
places in the world to prevent I guess
some some catastrophic scenario all
right so that's that's it with the
problems and that was a lot but its its
core to what this project is about and
it's important to set it as a
jumping-off point we're trying to
discuss why it is critical to just
upgrade the infrastructure of the
network of the web specifically and why
it is warranted to do this whole work
which is to design a new protocol think
about developing it and deploying it to
upgrade the web right this isn't easy so
why are we spending the time it's
because of these very very important
problems so we're trying to make the web
distributed work offline be permanent be
safer move around the content smarter
and actually surprisingly most
importantly make it faster because if
you don't make the thing faster no one's
going to use it technology gets adopted
because you make some performance
improvement and that's why you make some
important change to the bottom line of
major corporations and they say great
this is faster let's use it and so that
if if we don't focus on that and make it
really good this whole change isn't
going to happen funnily this whole thing
started because I wanted to make things
faster anyway so it's important to start
there all right so just like HTTP ipfs
is what we call hyper media transport
protocol it's just an algorithm in a
program that moves around data with
links that's it
but it's the cool thing about it is that
it's it's the synthesis of a whole bunch
of really good ideas that have come out
since the web emerged and this is just a
small selection there's actually a lot
of other good ideas that we've picked up
along the way but these kind of
are perhaps the most important ones and
this kind of translate directly to a
stack of protocols that we use and so
now we go into like the detail of what
exactly hypothesis is the stack of
protocols to try and rebase the the
entire web and the application stack as
it is today and move it to a smarter
transport protocol and we need some way
to do naming we need a way to represent
the data that is offline and
distributive first we need a way to move
the data efficiently and smartly and we
need a way to find the data and we the
core of ipfs is what we're calling sort
of the Merkel dag or it's kind of like a
Merkel tree let's grab it a little bit
more but that's really the central point
of this whole work it's a data structure
that changes the web from completely
always mutable links to making a
distinction between mutable and
immutable links if you are able to
understand when a link is immutable
meaning that the content that you're
pointing to has not and will never
change then you have a much better
possibility to be able to route the
content quickly make caches work and and
so on
and that that actual realization was
made many times over in many different
kinds of systems that adopted merkel
linking along the way I'll describe some
in a moment so that's the heart of ipfs
on top of that we layer naming that's
based on on david masseria's work i'll
describe how it works later and
underneath that we just learn a lot from
all the peer-to-peer protocols out there
to try and build a very sophisticated
way to move the content as effectively
as possible but that's that's able to
take in policies from the user in terms
of what where the user what capabilities
the users wants meaning that sometimes
you want things to go fast and sometimes
you want privacy and fundamentally these
two are at odds with each other because
the way you get privacy in Internet
protocols is by doing a whole bunch of
wasted work so believe is routing
protocols oblivious Ram they all work
through doing a whole bunch of expensive
expensive computations and expensive
moving around of data
and so you need to be able to dial the
the transport to understand when you
want to how you want to move things this
is kind of similar as the work of the
Tor project which is to rebase or to
insert tor underneath HTTP to move
around the website is today through a
privacy-preserving protocol turns out
that ipfs layer is very cleanly over tor
so you can use it over tor directly but
in that case it has to be done carefully
to make sure that you don't leak
important information like IP addresses
and so on so this is this is the network
stack as we see it which is that there's
there's on top of IP and so on on top of
the transports we have to deal with
finding and routing content so we can
use the HDS and a whole bunch of other
protocols we have to exchange the
content but the central piece is the
merkel DAC meaning we have to change how
we think about data and we have to think
through making it possible to do
immutable linking on that we can layer
naming and so on but in reality that we
have made a whole bunch of protocols
that you can use the whole thing is
designed so you don't have to use
anything that you don't want to use the
only piece that is critical is the heart
like the core it's that description of
the data structure that allows merkel
linking that is really the only piece
that you really need it's kind of like
IP when you think about tcp/ip the whole
protocol got developed at the same time
but the core contribution was the IP
network and similarly here we have a
whole bunch of protocols and a big stack
but they're all cleaned up in terms of
interfaces so you can really layer them
on top of anything else and like I
described it should layer over tor nigp
cleanly and we sort of see this as the
new as a new thin layer thin waste of
the internet or rather of the web so if
IP is the thin waist of the of the
internet we see the Merkel dag as the
thin waste of distributed protocols and
it turns out that it already is the the
thin waist it's just that right now
everybody is doing it in different ways
with different formats and we're just
sort of integrating them all into one
system so that
you can link between them so we see this
as an Internet of data or an Internet of
data structures where you should be able
to build applications link them with
this mutable or immutable linking and
then have them write over whatever
transport makes sense for the user or
the or the developer and so on and have
that be a separate discussion in term
instead of today which is like just the
same thing you you only do HTTP over you
mostly do only HTTP over TCP
all right Merkel trees how do they work
why is this data structure so important
the basic idea is that if you have some
piece of data that is linking to another
in HTTP land you would do just look you
would have an IP address that identifies
some location but the idea of a Merkel
link is that you link things together
with a cryptographic hash so you you use
the content itself to determine the link
and when you do that cryptographic
hashes have a the whole point of crypto
of a cryptographic hash is that you
cannot come up with some other preimage
that gives you the same hash or if you
do if you're able to come up with a
pre-image on demand then the whole
cryptographic hash is broken and you
should be able to attack all sorts of
systems in the network right so there's
this huge bounty right now for whoever
wants to break sha-256 they could run
away with the whatever you know five or
six billion dollars which is the whole
worth of the Bitcoin network it all
rests on whether or not you can break
shout 256 so if you can do that go ahead
and then we can move to chop three and
over time yeah we have to upgrade we
have to operate hash functions and this
is an important detail that we're still
working on but the whole point is let's
use cryptographic hashing to address the
content and that that's what gives you
the immune ability because if you change
anything the cryptographic hash changes
and now the link is different so let's
take the web and add merkel links to
them to it this is the Merkel tree which
is like the first kind of merkel ice
data structure this is where the idea of
a merkel link came out
get uses them this is why it works as
well as it does data within the gate
version control system is Merkel linked
Bitcoin uses it this is how the whole
block chain operates the whole thing is
is Merkel links and there's a whole
bunch of protocols right but the point
is that all of them have these different
Merkel links what if we build a thing oh
and you have Bitcoin is like this
massive this massive Merkel tree whoever
said that money doesn't grow on trees
right so let's take the Lisicki
idealized web and add some work linking
and that's what IP FS is so you can see
it as a sort of massive forest of Merkle
trees where any one tree can point to
any other tree and you do this by having
a common format around how you do the
linking and for those specific systems
that are pre ipfs we'll do some for like
the big important ones we'll try and
make them work natively and we'll have
some mapping to be able to address
things like git and Bitcoin and so on so
we can import all of that data but for
things going forward it would be great
to just use this one format so
everything can interoperate and that's
kind of like a whole the hardened core
over IP FS is about here are sort of
like a landscape as we see it there's
multiple block chains under how many
people here are into dialed into the
Bitcoin and blockchain world but there's
these massive Merkle trees emerging that
are now running financial systems and
smart contract systems meaning like
legal pseudo legal code that's executing
on the internet kind of on its own that
is mediating the transfer of property
and it all relies on the merkel linking
so aetherium which is one of these
important block chains that is emerging
which is the one kind of focused on
smart contracts is going to be using IP
FS already so that's that's exciting and
to explain why this merkel linking is so
valuable it's good to think about the
CVS or sv n transition and to get so if
you remember the good old days when
people had to use CVS you had the
centralized server that had all of the
data or oral of the version history of
awesome code and you and you had a
system where if you got disconnected
from the central server you couldn't
commit any code so you couldn't really
work well
you were offline also the server what
fell apart you couldn't talk nobody
could do anything at all and so get came
in and said okay look let's not do this
at all this is really stupid what if we
put the entire version control system in
each of the nodes and you have an
offline for a system where everyone is
working independently contributing and
adding immutable objects and then over
time you sync it and this is an
extremely valuable idea if you get
disconnected from the rest of the
network you can still work and operate
you can still communicate with each
other
if the centralized servers fall apart it
doesn't matter everyone can still work
and this is the same thing in that ipfs
does but it does it to the entire web
and this whoa the whole idea is less
let's take this this distributed offline
first data structure and use it to make
the entire web and this is what gives us
the distributed web this is why we're
able to make websites and applications
that link to each other that work
disconnected but work offline and that
have no origin server so in a sense if
you make a website on idea or if you put
a website on ipfs you might need a
server to have the data to seed it out
or at least one node but it is not the
origin server any server that casts the
data or in distributed can do so and the
website operates wherever it executes so
if you're running the website locally
the whole rest of the network could
disappear the data could be deleted from
every other computer and you still have
the code and you still have the data you
still operate that is the transition of
the model this is what I like to call
hyper speed because you're kind of
beating the speed of light right like
you're going after you're going faster
than the speed of light because you're
able to move content sometimes
preemptively or know that content hasn't
changed at all
so you don't have to connect in any way
and you can reason about the content you
have and not have to waste time or rely
on links that may be off so we call this
the Merkel dag it's not a great name
it's kind of hard to say we might rename
this the Merkel web or something like it
but
idea is you have this huge graph
everything is this directed acyclic
graph where content points to each other
with these merkel links and you can
represent unix files and directories
over this of course you can get as an
example of this you can do Bitcoin and
blockchain and so on and you can even do
arbitrary key value stores and there's
even some people that are building a
sequel database on top of IP FS so you
could have like full sequel semantics on
top of the merkel tag which is kind of
cool right so how would you go about
doing this well you represent a file as
a diagnose big files would be split into
multiple nodes and so you can do
chunking and duplication right so if you
have a massive file or two different
files that share a ton of data you just
duplicate it it's the same thing that
file systems have been doing for decades
let's just put that on the web itself
directories are diagnosed and so on and
so to show kind of how it looks so in
the regular web you would have this
domain name mapping to a location and so
that again would be like you talk to a
specific node and you pull it back in
the IP first-world let's use the hash
and address things by hash so you now
have a mapping from the name to the
content and you now can retrieve things
so any node that has the content can
serve it to you the way this works or
the reason that we have the the reason
the format is tricky to get right is
because you want to preserve two really
important properties of the web you want
to be able to resolve paths the same way
that UNIX brought it up right you want
to be able to do UNIX pathing on top of
this distributed web so you want to be
able to represent directories as back
nodes and resolve links through it the
by finding the hashes along the way this
is effectively what git does and so the
question is if you now have this massive
immutable log where you're adding
content all the time and whenever you
make any change to just create more
content
you still need mutability right so we've
we've gone from having pure immutable
we're going we've gone from a web that
is completely mutable to a web that is
completely immutable we're changing
content means creating new content
because changing the bits would change
the value of the hash which means the
link has to change
you still need mutability to be able to
do dynamic content but turns out that
people the folks over in that made plan
9 came up with the right way to do it
which is that you use merkel linking but
you have pointers on top of the graph so
the old fossil and vente file systems
work this way so you had this every time
you made any change you would just
create more data and by the way ZFS
works the same way you just constantly
create more data and when you want to do
dynamic content you just move the
pointer to the latest version so you
need some way of having these pointers
work across the whole web and get again
works the same way and get you have
immutable objects and you have mutable
branches that you keep pointing so the
master branch is really just a file in
your repository that has a hash in it
and whenever you commit you change that
value to point to something else
so right so we can do mutability really
trivially with DNS right so all we have
to do is take a DNS text record and put
in a hash there and whenever you want to
change things you change it but that's
really expensive right like we don't
want to be doing mutability across DNS
we want sub-millisecond mutability this
wouldn't work on its own so we
introduced a new naming system in
between and that's what we call IP n s
so the interplanetary name system and
this is based on David Messier's his
work the first file system that came out
up with it with SMS and that's as far
back as I've traced the idea that it
might actually be even older who knows
but the idea is very simple if you want
to point to some immutable content you
generate a public/private key pair and
you take the hash of the public key and
hand that out as a reference so when
people are going to look up something
they includes the hash of the public key
which means that they can retrieve the
public key and they can check that that
is correct the next thing you do is you
create a pointer
which has the value that you're wanna
point to and you sign it with your
private key and you take that record you
can put it somewhere in the network that
people can resolve it could be over DNS
but that's slow again we want to do
faster and this gives you a mutable link
that you can update whenever you want by
just signing the new pointer and
distributing it through the network does
this kind of make sense
this is clinician is not very good and
it's a very subtle idea that has wide
reaching implications I can explain it
again how many people got that or we're
completely phased sort of so so again
like the you take the content you take
the hash you create a pointer you sign
it with your private key and you put
that out there which means that somebody
can verify that it was signed by you and
nobody else
and then what you do is hand out a
reference to it which has the hash of
your public key so if I receive the the
link at the top with a blue link I take
that blue hash I can resolve I can find
the public key and retrieve that with it
and I can then find the pointers and I
can verify that the pointer was really
signed by you so I have full mutability
back and so these are these mutable
pointers that are layered on top of
course nobody wants to look look at
hashes so yeah sure that I have a recent
copy of the pointer and not over oh yeah
so you can do that in multiple ways so
it turns out that you don't actually
want to choose just one way of doing it
because there are different application
models that want to support different
kind of updates so one trivial way would
be to just update a counter right and so
you you look for whatever pointers you
can see and you take the highest value
that's one trivial way but there are
other cases where you can do ancestry
chains so one pointer can point to the
last pointer so you scan for a while
fetch a bunch of pointers and you take
the one that is the ancestor of all the
other ones yeah yeah so we are building
this as to be entirely pluggable with
whatever PKI you want to use so we don't
we don't enforce some PKI the idea is
that you can you bring your own keys and
you do whatever keys
you wanted to do use and ipfs will work
with whatever system you have and that's
an important thing because many
different organizations trust different
kind of cryptographic primitives and you
can't tell everyone hey just use these
because that that's not going to work so
the point here is that we have a whole
set of formats that give us
interoperability across different crypto
systems so the hashes here are not
sha-256 the nacho 3 they're actually a
thing we call multi hash which encodes
in the hash itself which function was
used to generate the hash so that you
can upgrade it over time and you can do
the same thing with the keys you can
describe what key it was and so on and
the hash there so this is this gets more
into like a kind of like more more
esoteric stuff but one cool result out
of this is that you can take the keys
themselves the public keys put them back
into ipfs as immutable content fetch
them and then link have the entire PKI
as objects here that you can find so the
you can have an object that point that
that includes the data of the public key
and a pointer to its parent key and a
signature within it so you can with
having only that object you can check
the key you can fetch the parent and you
can verify that the signature is correct
and you can crawl you can do this all
the way with the whole PKI so you can
use the immutable part of ipfs to
distribute the entire PKI and then from
there you can do revocation however you
want that's a whole other like how to do
revocation and key rotation are really
important pieces of this whole thing but
there's no one and nobody has come up
with like the one right solution and
it's mostly different camps when I use
different things so we just work with
all of them that's kind of our principle
around all of this you won't find one
solution that's right forever so you
should make the thing be able to work
with different people by introducing
these small simple formats that can
multiplex over the other ones it's kind
of how we do we work over multiple
transports that way so ipfs can work
over quick can work over tcp can work
over WebRTC can work over any single
transfer you want because we're with
made the whole thing self-describing
cool any other questions on this
mutability stuff no all right cool I'm
gonna go ahead because uh running late
so what this whole thing gives you is
this huge mesh of content that's
separate from the hosts that hosts it
and this huge metro of content is either
linked with immutable links which you
can verify by hashing it or linked with
authenticated links so key links which
you can verify by checking signatures
and so the the what it means to publish
to this network is that you just create
content add it and share the hash or you
create content sign it and you share the
your key and that gives you full power
to publish into the network without
necessarily having to host it yourself
and without having to trust any of the
people that are hosting the content for
you which buys you those elusive
properties which is that I should be
able to create the content and store it
all over the network and it should be
able to be served all over the network
and you should still be able to check
that it was truly me who published that
content and that you aren't being
attacked by some man in the middle and
so on here at Doug quacking it's
probably uh told me to rush so there's
this web of data so this huge match is
kind of like a wave of data in the same
way that the linked data world and
Semantic Web world wanted except that
instead of relying on the links being
these mutable references and relying on
just constant queries to all of these
online servers you can package the
content up and move it to wherever it
makes sense to be and everyone can check
the check that whole content integrity
on their own and so you can you can
model web application so you can
translate the standard websites of today
directly on to this by just adding them
as files directly onto ipfs and it all
works and that's kind of like a critical
component to do to interface with all
the databases that people use today
those would still work the same way and
that people still will have some restful
api s and so on and those who will still
operate the same way but it gets really
enter
saying when you start thinking about how
to do dynamic content or how to build
applications that really have no
centralized databases we're talking
about being able to create applications
where a client would generate the data
locally so for example a Twitter client
could generate the data locally I would
have a set of keys I create a tweet or
an email or whatever I sign it locally
and I distribute it through the network
and people can check that it was truly
me who wrote that people can move it
around however they want and if you add
encryption around the data itself then
you don't have to worry about encrypting
the wire all the time you should also
encrypt the wire but the point is you
don't have to worry about the data
leaking necessarily and that the data is
encrypted on its own big asterisk there
in that depending on how you encrypt
things depending on how you move it
around people could break encryption and
so on but it's a very different model
for computation right it's a model that
goes back to the distributed notion of
the web where the publisher is anybody
where the hoster is anybody and where
it's completely distributed and
peer-to-peer and so we can have websites
that operate entirely on the browser and
have known as no brow no server
necessarily of course service a really
good idea it makes things faster but it
should only make things faster or maybe
do some critical processing but you
shouldn't have to trust the server all
the time with all your data constantly
to the point where you no longer have
the ability to publish yourself and
that's the sort of shift in model and
you can do this so this graph could be
used for anything right like if you
really sink down you can start creating
like legal records and contracts and and
link all these pieces together and have
just this web of data that you're
checking not necessarily worrying about
the representation of the files
themselves all right that's kind of how
I PFS works I wanted to say a little bit
about how the project is going because
there's a whole bunch of ideas and we've
I've kind of just given an overview
there's really a whole bunch of pieces
that we're touching and so where why is
this different from any other good idea
out there why is it different from the
tons of good ideas that have been
written up and maybe implemented but
haven't really
you know been deployed so we're
designing the whole thing to again
interface with the web of today and we
have like this whole sophisticated
adoption plan to make sure that we can
migrate to ipfs without having to
without the user under Stelling right so
the first step for example is you run
some HTTP gateway where you can give
people regular HTTP links that will
resolve through IP FS and they can pull
content and it all kind of works
seamlessly of course that still relies
in some gateways the next step is you
ship them some JavaScript code which
runs a full implementation of the node
in their browser tab so now you have the
full IP FS node in the browser tab
capable of doing the entire protocol and
moving around the content but the user
never had to install anything that's not
as fast so you ideally want it to be as
part of the browser itself and you can
do this through either browser
extensions or you can do this by
implementing directly in the browser and
we are actually working with a browser
vendor a major browser vendor on
implementing ipfs in the browser which
is actually a show of traction like this
is actually to the point where browser
vendors are going home this is really
cool let's actually use it and the last
case and this is where we stopped it
where we're actually kind of extending
the web into Unix
we see ipfs more as an OS service that
should be running as part of the OS
itself and if you notice the link that
we had are they don't have the colon in
it right so if you look at an HTTP link
it looks kind of like an where's a nice
feeling there we go so an HTP link has
this colon slash slash thing and we just
have slashes the trivial detail but in
reality this is what allows you to mount
the entire thing in your UNIX file
system and now you can write
applications that are running in the
regular standard Process Model that are
actually part of the web so you can ship
code this way you can have entire
package managers this way you can model
entire file systems this way you can
model entire machines and virtual
machines as just entities in this in
this graph and so you could have your
name pointing to a VM
and all you have to do is remember your
one name and you pull down the entire
virtual machine you emulate and you
defer the dataview emulator you run
it you have all of your personal files
in there and you can now compute and all
that's all that what that's doing is
just adding more immutable content that
you're now spreading back into the
network so this is where I wear it where
it goes from parity with the web to
really giving a whole bunch of new
capabilities that have been known and
studied in distributed systems and file
systems but haven't really made its way
all over to the web cool so there's a
whole bunch of stuff there that that is
really exciting and interesting but but
that kind of is an example of how you
can go about making sure that this thing
isn't just some random idea it's really
the whole set of protocols are designed
to plug into all of the other systems
that are out there so that's actually
the majority to work the majority of
work was not coming up the ideas was not
making the core implementations it's
making the whole thing interface with
the rest of the ecosystem so whole bunch
of tools I have to be made it's a whole
bunch of careful design decisions about
whether or not to include a colon there
right that could so that colon the HTTP
colon slash slash it's like this
reminder that a trivial decision could
make it impossible for the web to be
layered on UNIX which created a rift
between the browser's and the web and
the file system and so maybe by removing
that colon we can bring back the web
into Unix and make the whole thing work
together that's just an example of a
kind of like this principle that we have
in the whole project which is to make
sure things integrate well and choose
make decisions based on what will cause
zero friction of adoption and we're
really trying to get to like that zero
friction of of abuse and we seem to have
done a good job because a lot of people
are now using IP FS so this this project
is completely open-source anybody can
use it we have a two implementations one
in written go one in JavaScript people
are actively running ipfs there's
between 50 to 100
thousand websites now running on ipfs
they can be viewed through regular web
browsers through our gateways or they
can be viewed natively with ipfs if you
happen to be running it locally people
are using it not just for the web but
for file systems so people are using it
to move around containers so there's
this huge effort around application
containers with docker and core OS and
so on which is kind of virtualizing in a
very thin way and people are using idea
fast to move around these large images
they tend to be anywhere between five
megabytes to a gigabyte and people are
using ipfs to move them around the data
center because you have these usually
the typical construction there is you
have some seed of data in the in the
broader Internet where you kind of
publish these images and then you want
to ship them out to a whole bunch of
machines in your data center and you
want that to be really fast you don't
want to pay the cost of of talking to
that seed outside you want to minimize
the cost to move it into your data
center and then use your own machines
and your own local network to distribute
the whole thing really quickly so that's
another use case that people are doing
we recently found out that a FreeNAS
which is the FreeBSD distribution for
network attached storage devices is now
bundling ipfs and they have like a
pretty huge install base between a
hundred thousand to I think maybe a
million users I'm not entirely sure but
they're not going to be shipping ipfs by
default and people going to be using it
another set of interesting use cases is
around package management so Linux made
this amazing contribution or like the
Glynnis community had this amazing
contribution which is let's ship code
through this very well cleaned up
ecosystem of carefully designed packages
and signed and do the whole verification
and make it really trivial to install
code turns out that you can put all of
those artifacts directly in ipfs and if
you're in a data center and you need to
download a package there's no reason you
should be having to talk to the whole
package manager and wasting all this
bandwidth you could be getting it from
whatever other computers near you that
you happen to be connected to there's a
lot of careful policies that go into
which computer should be able to connect
to each other but that's where the
routing system comes in it turns out
that there are some
elegant ways to construct those those
policies yeah and and perhaps like for
me the most interesting piece of this
whole thing is that people are now
building web applications that really
have no origin they run completely on
the browser and they have they generate
dynamic content and they communicate
with each other and it's all hosted on
this huge web of content encrypted by
default and you're now mutating data
without an origin and the whole thing
works in the distributor case so
completely offline first it's a huge
project now there's tons of contributors
there's a last time I counted there was
upwards from 200 people that have
submitted code the core team is very
small there's about six of us but the
reason this massive project is actually
doable is that we're doing the whole
thing open source from the beginning
everything is online all of our design
discussions are up there anyone can come
in and talk and we've had a number of
very interesting developments there
where suddenly we had some question we
didn't really know what what the right
answer was and some wouldn't happen to
know that the right person was you know
out there and had worked on this kind of
thing they just tagged them on github
they showed up solve the problem for us
and then we moved on right and so this
is kind of like the next of course this
is kind of like simple for most people
that do open source like github is this
great resource where there's this huge
social network around just contributing
and making code but we are living this
amazing dream of being able to just pull
in the right expert of the right time
whenever we want and the whole design
discussions everything is there so
people can contribute in any any kind of
work there's a whole bunch of
interesting algorithm questions around
see our duties see our duties are these
conflict-free replicated datatypes where
they're a perfect fit for ipfs because
these are immutable data structures by
design or rather they're immutable and
mutable in the same way that ipfs is
immutable immutable and they map very
cleanly to ipfs and the world experts on
it suddenly started having a discussion
in our forums of discussion around how
best to layer this in ipfs how to use
ipfs to move around their content how to
build applications on it
and that is what is making this whole
gargantuan effort possible right so yeah
any so again in in short we are trying
to upgrade the entire internet and like
our life is really about this whole
process of research development
deployment of protocols and if I were to
say one last thing here in this video at
Stanford where people are doing so much
research for the network is that truly
when you look at the papers we the
idealized systems are twenty years ahead
of what we have deployed or what's in
use today and there's this filter
there's a set of filters around how much
of that research gets developed how much
of that research gets developed cleanly
in a good usable way to the point where
deployment actually makes sense how many
of those deployments are done correctly
to the point where they're actually
widely used so many times the reason
great ideas don't make it to be used is
that these filters which are mostly
around not coming up with ideas but
rather how do you take this idea and
ship it to the real world these filters
are kind of like prevent great ideas
from from distributing and this is what
we we really care about so we're
building this organization called
protocol labs around making sure that
those filters are better in that many
times you can just go in and realize
that some implementation if you tweak it
change the language or just try it again
you can now make a really good system
that can actually be deployed so this is
where where I would encourage a lot of
people to spend time on thinking about
what old ideas are really good and just
maybe wasn't the right time
maybe the implementation wasn't very
good maybe just didn't get deployed the
right way but in reality there's nothing
else holding it back and how can we
upgrade the internet on the web as a
whole by just putting some work there
great so that's kind of everything sorry
this has been pretty long
you